Examine unsigned memory sections used by few processes. Legitimate dynamic link
libraries (DLLs) are typically used by many processes, and system DLLs are usually
signed.
To view memory sections, click Memory Sections under Processes on the Analysis Data
window’s Host tab.
Redline breaks the memory sections into the following filters:
l Injected memory
l Named sections only
Strings
Platform support: Windows
Redline displays information about captured strings. When creating any type of Redline
Collector, by default, strings are not captured. To enable string collection, check Strings on
the Memory tab on the View and Edit Your Script window. See Memory Options in Script
on page 11 for more information.
To view strings, click Strings under Processes on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
Ports
Platform support: Windows
Malware often initiates outbound connections to command and control (C2) servers or
listens on a port for incoming connections. Review ports and connections for unusual or
unexpected source or destination ports and addresses, especially from what appears to be
system processes.
To view ports, click Ports under Processes on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
Redline filters ports by:
l Listening ports. Review listening ports for unknown ports in a listening state and
confirm known processes are listening only on ports typical in your environment.
l Established ports. Review established ports for outbound connections to IPs in
suspicious locations and look for communication on suspicious or nonstandard
ports.
Network ports here are only network ports found within process memory space. For
information about network ports used by Windows API calls, see Ports on the Analysis
Data window’s Host tab.
© 2020 FireEye 34
Release 2.0 Processes and Their Attributes
Parent Process Tab
Use the Parent Process tab to view process information. The Parent Process tab appears at
the bottom of the Selected Item Details pane.
The Selected Item Details pane displays the following information:
l Process Information—This area contains information about the process you selected
to view. This includes the process name, the parent process name, the path the
process uses, the arguments the process uses, the start time, the elapsed kernel time,
the elapsed user time, and the state of the process.
l User Information—This area contains information about the user of the process.
This includes the users name, the security identification number, and the security
type.
© 2020 FireEye 35
Release 2.0 Processes and Their Attributes
Viewing Parent Process Information
1. In the Redline user interface in the Analyze Data area, click the appropriate link
that points to the session you want to view.
The Timeline Configuration pane appears and the Alerts tab is selected..
2. Click the Fields button at the bottom of the Timeline Configuration pane.
3. Select the Deselect All check box at the top of the pane.
4. Select a process agent event.
5. In the process agent events list on the right, select a process agent event instance.
6. Click the Show Details link on the bottom of the pane.
The Selected Item Details pane appears.
7. Click the Parent Process tab.
The parent proces information appears in the Selected Item Details pane.
Files and Their Attributes
Platform support: Windows, OS X, Linux
Redline displays file attributes, such as file metadata, file hashes, timestamps, user
information, file path, and digital signatures. For Windows, it also shows specific lists for
the following:
l Imports
l Exports
l Strings
l Alternate Data Streams. Attackers often use alternate data streams to hide files from
Windows Explorer. However, streams are not necessarily malicious. Windows uses
alternate data streams to store legitimate information, such as Zone Identifier
information for downloaded files, and to address Windows/Linux compatibility
issues.
l Program Executable (PE) information as well as version information. Any
executable file regardless of its extension has PE header information. Review files
that have PE information and an extension that is not typical of an executable (such
a .txt).
l Resource Data
© 2020 FireEye 36
Release 2.0 Files and Their Attributes
To view files and their attributes, click File System on the Analysis Data window’s Host
tab.
You can select nodes to limit the display in the table view. On the Directory Tree tab on the
Filters window, select the node. The Apply Selections Recursively option determines
whether subnodes are included automatically (selecting a node selects all its subnodes) or
independently (selecting a node does not select all its subnodes). Right-click a tree node to
toggle the node and all its subnodes.
File Details
When you click the File tab, the Selected Item Details pane displays. You use this pane to
view information about the file that was audited.
The Selected Item Details pane displays the following information:
l File Metadata—Information about the file metadata. This includes the full path, the
file size, the attributes, and the iNode (Windows only).
© 2020 FireEye 37
Release 2.0 File Details
l File Hashes—Information about the hashes. This includes the MD5 sum, SHA1
sum, and the SHA256 sum.
l Timestamps—Information about the time stamps. This includes the date the file
was created, the file was modified, the date the file was accessed, and the date the
file was changed. For Windows, it also includes the date the file name was created,
the date the file name was modified, the date the file name was accessed, and the
date the file name was changed.
l User Information—This area contains information about the user of the audits. This
includes the users name, the security identification number, and the security type.
l User Groups (OS X and Linux)—This area contains the group name the user
belongs to, group ID, and group permissions.
l File Path Parts—This area contains the names of the parts of the file path that is
used for audits. This includes the drive path (Windows only), the drive letter
(Windows only), the file directory path, the file name, and the file extension.
l PEInfo (Windows only)—This area contains information about the Windows OS
executable format and how it is loaded into memory. This includes the PE type, the
peak entropy, and the peak code entropy.
l Advanced PEInfo (Windows only)—This area contains advanced information about
the Windows OS executable format.sub-system type, the base address, the PE time
stamp, the number of extraneous bytes, the EP jump code depth, EP jump code opcodes, the PE file raw checksum, the PE file API checksum, and thePE file computed
API checksum.
l Digital Signature (Windows and OS X)—This area contains information about the
certificate. This includes does the signature exist and is it verified. It also includes a
description of the signature, the certificate issuer, and the subject of the certificate.
l Exports Information (Windows only)—This area contains information about the
exports associated with a process. This includes the DLL name, the exports time
stamp, the number of functions, and the number of names.
Viewing File Information
1. In the Redline user interface in the Analyze Data area, click the appropriate link
that points to the session you want to view.
The Timeline Configuration pane appears and the Alerts tab is selected..
2. Click the Fields button at the bottom of the Timeline Configuration pane.
3. Select the Deselect All check box at the top of the pane.
4. Select a process agent event.
5. In the process agent events list on the right, select a process agent event instance.
© 2020 FireEye 38
Release 2.0 File Details
6. Click the Show Details link on the bottom of the pane.
The Selected Item Details pane appears.
7. Click the File tab.
The file details appear in the Selected Item Details pane.
Registry
Platform support: Windows
Redline displays registry information, such as user information and key values, for registry
entries.
To view registry information, click Registry on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
You can select nodes to limit the display in the table view. On the Directory Tree tab on the
Filters window, select the node. The Apply Selections Recursively option determines
whether subnodes are included automatically (selecting a node selects all its subnodes) or
independently (selecting a node does not select all its subnodes). Right-click a tree node to
toggle the node and all its subnodes.
The Registry Modified timestamp is not a definite indication that a specific
value was changed. This timestamp indicates a value within the parent key
was changed. Redline propagates the registry modified timestamp down to
all registry values to facilitate analysis based on time.
Services
Platform support: Windows, OS X
Redline displays the services known to the host and information about them such as
status (e.g., stopped or running) as well as digital signatures and hashes.
To view Windows services, click Windows Services(for Windows) or Services(for OS X
daemons) on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
Attackers often install backdoors as a service to attain persistence and ensure that the
malware restarts when the compromised computer is restarted. Often, an attacker will
make a small change to an existing service's name so it will look very similar to what you
would expect. For example, the service name would have an “m” instead of “rn” as
expected.
© 2020 FireEye 39
Release 2.0 Registry
For Windows, if you know that a benign service name is supposed to be associated with a
specific descriptive name, check the descriptive name of other services with the same or
similar service name. Any other descriptive name showing up with that service name is
suspect.
Persistence Mechanisms
Platform support: Windows, OS X
Redline displays persistence mechanisms discovered on a host along with the associated
files, services, and registry entries for each one.
To view persistence mechanisms, click Persistence on the Analysis Data window’s Host
tab.
Review persistence mechanisms to identify how a potential compromise maintains its
presence.
Quarantine Events
Platform support: OS X
Mac OS X keeps a log of all downloaded files. Files are added to the log even if you are
using "private" browsing in Safari or "incognito" in Google Chrome. This log is not cleared
even if the browser downloads information gets cleared.
To view a list of downloaded files, click Quarantine Events on the Analysis Data
window’s Host tab. Review downloaded files for potential threats.
Agent Events
Platform support: Windows, OS X, Linux
For analysis sessions with an HX Triage Collection or MIR audit data, Redline displays
agent events.
To view agent events, click Agent Events on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
Under agent events, Redline also displays the following event types:
© 2020 FireEye 40
Release 2.0 Persistence Mechanisms
l File write (Windows and OS X). File write events occur any time a file is written to.
These events attempt to group all writes to a single file within 15 seconds into a
single event. Additional file write event data includes the MD5 and the first bytes
from the lowest offset that was written in the file.
l Registry key (Windows only). Registry key events occur whenever a registry key or
key value from a preconfigured list of keys commonly used for persistence is
modified. Additional registry key event data includes the key value type and the
actual value to which the key was changed.
l IP address change (Windows and OS X). IP address change events occur whenever
the IP address of the host system is changed. Additional IP address change event
data includes the date and time generated and the new address.
l Network connection. Network connection events occur any time the host computer
establishes a network connection. In the case of connectionless protocols (i.e., ICMP),
an event is captured any time data is transferred. Additional network connection
event data includes generated date and time, PID, process, local and remote IP, local
and remote ports, and protocol.
l Image load (Windows and OS X). Image load events occur whenever an executable
or linked library is loaded into memory. Additional image load events data includes
generate date and time, PID, process, full path, and user name. Investigate these
events to determine if a specific process or library was started on a host computer.
l DNS lookup (Windows and OS X). DNS lookup events occur whenever the host
computer makes a DNS request. Additional DNS lookup event data includes
generated date and time, host name, PID, and process.
l Process Events. A process event occurs when a process starts and again when a
process ends. An agent will also generate a process event if it starts while a process
is running.
l Exploit Events (Windows and OS X). An exploit event occurs when an agent detects
a specific malware method like heap spraying. Heap spraying refers to the attempt
to insert software into a predetermined location in a vulnerable browser.
l URL Monitor Events (Windows and OS X). A URL monitor events occur whenever
a URL is accessed.
Users
Platform support: Windows and OS X 
Redline displays different user information details based on the underlying OS. The
common user information is your username, your last login date and time, the group name
that you belong to, and the home directory.
© 2020 FireEye 41
Release 2.0 Users
To view a list of users, click Users on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
If the potentially compromised host belongs to an organization that has conventions for
naming users (such as first initial and last name) then check the user names for any that
appear to not follow the convention.
Groups
Platform support: OS X
This audit returns all the groups present in a Mac OS X host. The following information is
returned:
l Group Name
l Full Name
l User List
l Group ID
To view the groups, click Groups on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
Syslog
Platform support: OS X
Mac hosts collect numerous amounts of log files containing all sorts of information about
processes, applications, connectivity, drivers, etc. This information can be very useful to
security professionals in their quest for finding evil.
To view system logs, click Syslog on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
Tasks and Their Attributes
Platform support: Windows, OS X, Linux
Redline displays a scheduled tasks list that includes task information, file hashes, digital
signatures, application, and schedule information.
To view scheduled tasks, click Tasks on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
© 2020 FireEye 42
Release 2.0 Groups
Each task may have a list of triggers (Windows and OS X only) or actions (Windows only),
which you can view in the details view. Click Triggers or Actions under Tasks.
Network Ports
Platform support: Windows,OS X, Linux
Malware often communicates through network ports, either listening for commands or
making outbound connections. Check network port lists for unusual or unexpected port
connections.
To view network ports enumerated by the operating system, click Ports on the Analysis
Data window’s Host tab.
Redline filters ports by:
l Listening ports. Review unknown ports in a listening state and confirm known
processes are listening only on ports typical in your environment.
l Established ports. Review established ports for outbound connections to IPs in
suspicious locations and look for communication on suspicious or nonstandard
ports.
This view lists network ports that were found using OS API calls. For network ports found
in process memory space, see Ports under Processes on the Analysis Data window’s Host
tab (Windows only).
Event Logs
Platform support: Windows
Redline displays an event logs list that includes the application that generated the log,
log's message, user, timestamp when log was generated, source, and type.
To view event logs, click Event Logs on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
Kernel Modules
Platform support: Linux
This audit shows a list of loaded kernel modules.
© 2020 FireEye 43
Release 2.0 Network Ports
To view enumerated kernel modules, click Kernel Modules on the Analysis Data
window’s Host tab.
Driver Modules
Platform support: Windows
Redline lists driver modules information including the path, name, base, size, and address.
To view driver modules, click Driver Modules on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
Device Tree
Platform support: Windows
Malware authors sometimes use device driver layering to intercept data. They may place a
keylogger, file logger, or other data-stealing routine on top of a system device driver.
However, many device driver layers are legitimate routines providing common filtering
tasks.
To view devices, click Device Tree on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
In particular, look at:
l Ntfs. The System Restore driver is often layered on \Ntfs; other drivers may indicate
a file filter driver, which can hide files and directories or filter file content.
l Kbdclass. Keylogging malware is often layered on \Kbdclass.
Hooks
Platform support: Windows (limited support for Windows 10) 
Hooks are subroutines injected into the usual system function mechanisms, allowing a
third party to monitor and modify data as it moves from source to destination. Rootkits
often use hooks in the kernel to implement hiding functions.
To view hooks inserted into the operating system, click Hooks on the Analysis Data
window’s Host tab.
Redline filters hooks as follows:
© 2020 FireEye 44
Release 2.0 Driver Modules
l IDT hooks. The Interrupt Descriptor Table (IDT) is a data structure used to
implement an interrupt vector table. The processor uses IDT to determine the correct
response to interrupts and exceptions. IDT hooks are usually malicious.
l SSDT hooks. The System Service Dispatch Table (SSDT) is an internal dispatch
table within Microsoft Windows. Hooking SSDT calls is often used as a technique in
both Windows rootkits and antivirus software.
l IRP hooks. I/O request packets (IRPs) are kernel mode structures used by Windows
Driver Model (WDM) device drivers to communicate with each other and with the
operating system.
DNS Entries
Platform support: Windows, OS X
Redline displays information from Domain Name System (DNS) records stored in the
computer's in-memory DNS cache table, which is maintained by the DNS Client Services
Windows component. The information displayed includes the host, record name, time to
live, data length, flags, and record type.
To view DNS entries, click DNS Entries on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
ARP Entries
Platform support: Windows, OS X 
A computer maintains an Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) table for basic network and
traffic routing. Redline displays information about entries in the IPv4 and IPv6 ARP tables.
The information displayed includes physical, IPv4, and IPv6 addresses, interface type
(static or dynamic), cache type, last unreachable and reachable dates, and if it is a router.
To view ARP entries, click ARP Entries on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
Route Entries
Platform support: Windows, OS X 
© 2020 FireEye 45
Release 2.0 DNS Entries
Redline displays network routing entries including interface, destination, gateway,
protocol, route type (indirect or direct), netmask, preferred and valid lifetimes, and origin.
The list also shows if the address is autoconfigured, and if the entry is IPv6, loopback, and
published.
To view route entries, click Route Entries on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
System Restore
Platform support: Windows (not supported on Windows 10) 
Window's system restore monitors critical operating system files and other various
application files and provides a simple and immediate recovery to various points in time
through the creation of restore points.
Redline displays information about Windows restore points such as change log file name,
created date, change event, change log entry type, original file name, restore point name,
and file attributes.
To view Windows restore points, click System Restore under the Analysis Data window's
Host tab.
System restore can sometimes show evidence of a compromise, such as files that were
used during a compromise and later deleted.
Prefetch
Platform support: Windows
Windows uses prefetch to maintain a reference to recently executed code. This reference is
stored in the %SYSTEMROOT%\Prefetch directory.
Redline lists the prefetch cache contents. For each application name, Redline shows the
path, last run and created dates and times, prefetch cache, size, and number of times
executed.
To view prefetch cache contents, click Prefetch on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
If you suspect that an attacker has deleted files, review the accessed files of any known bad
processes to find references to files that were deleted. To view the files accessed by
applications in the prefetch cache, click Accessed Files under Prefetch.
To view the volume name, type, device path, and other information about volumes
referenced in the prefetch cache, click Prefetch Volumes under Prefetch.
© 2020 FireEye 46
Release 2.0 System Restore
Disks
Platform support: Windows, OS X
Redline lists the disk name and its size for Windows and OS X. Additionally for OS X,
Redline lists disk type, connection, and device path.
To view disk information, click Disks on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
For partition number, length, offset, and type, click Partitions under Disks.
Volumes
Platform support: Windows, OS X 
Redline lists the volume name, device path, and file system name for volumes for all
supported OSes. All other attributes are OS-dependent.
To view volume information, click Volume on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
Registry Hives
Platform support: Windows
Redline displays the hive name and key for host registry hives.
To view registry hives, click Registry Hives on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
Browser URL History
Platform support: Windows, OS X 
Redline displays information about uniform resource locators (URLs) viewed using
Microsoft Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, and Safari, including host name, URL, page
title, browser name and version, visit from, visit count, first (Windows only) and last visit
dates, and first bookmark date.
To view the URL history, click Browser URL History on the Analysis Data window’s Host
tab.
© 2020 FireEye 47
Release 2.0 Disks
Redline has the following filters for browser URL history records:
l All. Shows all URLs.
l Redirects. Shows all URLs for visit types that were a variation of a redirect, which
is often used to bounce a user from site to site before finally reaching a malware
staging server.
l Visit from. Shows all URLs generated after the user first viewed another page,
which can be valuable information in determining a sequence of events.
l Visited once. Shows only URLs that had exactly one visit; rarely visited sites are an
indication of suspicious activity.
l Visited bookmarked URLs. Shows only URLs that were visited by the user selecting
a URL from the browser's bookmarks. Bookmarks may indicate that the user
frequently visits a website and trusts it.
l Typed URLs. Shows only URLs that the user visited by typing the address into the
browser, which implies that the user was aware of the site.
l Hidden visits. Shows all URLs accessed without the user’s direct knowledge,
including hidden IFrames often used by embedded ad sites which could be
potentially infected with malicious obfuscated JavaScript.
l Forms. Shows all URLs on which the user entered data.
Cookie History
Platform support: Windows, OS X 
Cookies are a means for a website to store information on a user's computer for later
retrieval. They are most commonly used to track login and session information about a
user's visit to a website. You can use cookies as a resource for analyzing certain types of
browser-based activity.
Redline lists browser cookies from Microsoft Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, and Safari,
including the cookie's name, path, value, and flags; host name; browser version; profile;
user name; creation, expiration, last accessed, and last modified dates; file name; and file
path.
To view the cookie history, click Cookie History on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
Redline has the following filters for cookie history records:
© 2020 FireEye 48
Release 2.0 Cookie History
l All. Shows all cookies.
l Secure cookies. Shows only cookies that must be sent over HTTPS, which is an
uncommon restriction for cookies and may indicate suspicious activity.
l HTTP only cookies. Shows only cookies that are hidden to the application.
l Cookies with flags. Shows only cookies that have attribute flags set. Applicable only
for Internet Explorer (Windows only).
Form History
Platform support: Windows, OS X 
Whenever a user enters data on a form, such as a login form on a bank website or even a
simple text box like the one on the Google search page, a form history entry is recorded.
Redline lists form data entered into Firefox or Chrome, including browser name and
version, user name, profile, form field name and value, form type, creation and last used
dates, encryption password and type, password, user field name, and number of times
used.
To view the form history, click Form History on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
Redline has the following filters for form history records:
l All. Shows all forms submitted by a browser.
l Login. Shows login type forms.
l Normal. Shows all forms except login type forms.
File Download History
Platform support: Windows, OS X 
Downloaded files are a common mechanism for attackers to use to gain access to a
computer. Users are likely to download files with names of interest (such as “birthday
wishes”). Many users are aware that .exe files should not be downloaded and run.
However, if a file has a “.txt” or another similar indication of a file type in the file name
and the user has file extensions turned off in their Windows Explorer, the user may open
the file not realizing that the actual extension is .exe and the file is an executable.
Redline lists files downloaded using Microsoft Internet Explorer, Firefox, Chrome, and
Safari, including source URL, target directory, browser name and version, bytes
downloaded, start and end date, download type (Windows only), file name, user name,
© 2020 FireEye 49
Release 2.0 Form History
profile, cache flags (Windows only), cache hit count (Windows only), and last accessed
checked and modified dates (both Windows only).
To view the file download history, click File Download History on the Analysis Data
window’s Host tab.
Redline has the following filters for file download history records:
l All. Shows all files that were both manually or automatically downloaded.
l Plain text. Shows downloaded files that have well-known plain text extensions (i.e.,
.txt, .html, .htm, .xml, .css, and .js).
l Images. Shows downloaded image files (i.e., .jpeg, .jpg, .bmp, .gif, .png, .tioff, .ico,
and .ani).
l Media. Shows downloaded files that have common audio and video format
extensions (i.e., .swf, .swa, .mov, .mpeg, .mp3, .mpa, .mp4, .wma, .wav, and .midi).
l PDFs. Shows downloaded files that have the portable document form (.pdf)
extension.
l IE leak records (Windows only). Shows only Internet Explorer LEAK records, which
indicate a cached file was in use when cache cleanup was being performed and
thus it was not removed from the system.
l IE redirect records (Windows only). Shows only Internet Explorer redirect records,
which indicate the visit was a result of a redirect operation.
l Manual downloads. Shows all manual downloads (i.e., any file such as an installer
that was not automatically downloaded as part of viewing the page).
l Saved to non-standard locations (Windows only). Shows files that were
downloaded to non-standard locations, such as to program file or system
directories.
l Full HTTP header available (Windows only). Shows files that had the entire HTTP
header captured when downloaded.
l Large than 20 kilobytes. Shows downloaded files that are larger than 20KB.
l Incomplete. Shows any downloads that were not completed for any reason.
Shell History
Platform support: Linux
Shows command history for the most popular Linux command shells: bash, zsh, and
ksh93. This audit assumes default history filename (.bash_history, .zsh_history, .sh_
history).
© 2020 FireEye 50
Release 2.0 Shell History
To view the shell history, click Shell History on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab.
Login History
Platform support: Linux
Enumerates user sessions, including currently active, historical, and failed sessions. Note
that only interactive sessions are displayed. Non-interactive sessions, like the ones used for
SCP or SFTP, are not a part of this audit.
To view the login history, click Login History on the Analysis Data window’s Host tab
